<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
	  xml:lang="es-MX">
    <head>
        <link href="../css/principal.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
        <meta charset="UTF-8" />
        <title>Fundamentos filosóficos de la doctrina del fair use</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <!-- Notas -->
        <hr style="margin: 4em;" />
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota1"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota1">&#160;1</a></span>. Perry, Lee; McMahon, Gerard: <em>Lee Perry speaks his mind</em>: 2013: <a target="_blank" href="http://unitedreggae.com/articles/n1221/012613/interview-lee-perry-speakshis-mind">en línea</a> (16 de febrero de 2016). Entrevista.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota2"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota2">&#160;2</a></span>. <em>Copyright Act of 1976</em>: 17 U.S.C. § 107. La doctrina del <em>fair use</em> se encuentra regulada en Estados Unidos por esta ley.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota3"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota3">&#160;3</a></span>. Netanel, Neil Weinstock: «Making sense of fair use», <em>Lewis  and  Clark</em>: 2011 (núm.&#160;3), vol.&#160;15, pp.&#160;720 y 723.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota4"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota4">&#160;4</a></span>. Leval, Pierre N.: «Campbell v. Acuff-Rose: justice souter’s rescue of fair use,&#160;13», <em>Cardozo Arts &#38; Entertainment Law Journal</em>: 1994 (núm.&#160;19).</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota5"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota5">&#160;5</a></span>. Beebe, Barton: «An empirical study of U. S. copyright fair use opinions, 1978-2005», <em>University Of Pennsylvania Law Review</em>: 2008 (núm.&#160;3), vol.&#160;156, p.&#160;597.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota6"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota6">&#160;6</a></span>. Beebe, Barton: «An empirical study of U. S. copyright fair use opinions, 1978-2005», <em>University Of Pennsylvania Law Review</em>: 2008 (núm.&#160;3), vol.&#160;156, p.&#160;610.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota7"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota7">&#160;7</a></span>. Beebe, Barton: «An empirical study of U. S. copyright fair use opinions, 1978-2005», <em>University Of Pennsylvania Law Review</em>: 2008 (núm.&#160;3), vol.&#160;156, p.&#160;615.</p>       
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota8"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota8">&#160;8</a></span>. <em>Harper &#x00026; Row, Publishers, Incorporated, et al. v. Nation Enterprises, et al.</em>: 1985, 471 US 539. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota9"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota9">&#160;9</a></span>. «[T]he more transformative the new work, the less will be the significance of other factors, like commercialism, that may weigh against a finding of fair use». <em>Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc.</em>: 1994, 510 U.S. 569 y 579. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota10"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota10">10</a></span>. «[It] adds something new, with a further purpose or different character, altering the first with new expression, meaning, or message». <em>Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc.</em>: 1994, 510 U.S. 569 y 579. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota11"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota11">11</a></span>. «[M]ay reasonably be perceived». <em>Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc.</em>: 1994, 510 U.S. 569 y 579. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota12"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota12">12</a></span>. «[T]he ultimate test of <em>fair use</em>, therefore, is whether the copyright law’s goal of “promot[ing] the Progress of Science and useful Arts” would be better served by allowing the use than by preventing it». <em>Castle Rock Entertainment, Inc. v. Carol Publishing Group</em>: 1998, 150 F.3d 132</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota13"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota13">13</a></span>. «[M]uch smaller, lower-resolution images that served an entirely different function than Kelly’s original images». <em>Kelly v. Arriba Soft Corp.</em>: 2003, 336 F.3d 811. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota14"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota14">14</a></span>. «[It would be unlikely] that anyone would use Arriba’s thumbnails for illustrative or aesthetic purposes because enlarging them sacrifices their clarity». <em>Kelly v. Arriba Soft Corp.</em>: 2003, 336 F.3d 811. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota15"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota15">15</a></span>. <em>Blanch v. Koons</em>: 2006, 467F.3d 244.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota16"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota16">16</a></span>. Samuelson, Pamela: «The quest for a sound conception of copyright’s derivative work right», <em>Georgetown Law Journal</em>: 2012 (núm.&#160;6), vol.&#160;101.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota17"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota17">17</a></span>. Moore, Adam: «Intellectual property», <em>The Stanford encyclopedia of philosophy</em> (ed. Edward  N.  Zalta): 2011: <a target="_blank" href="http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/intellectual-property/">en línea</a> (16 de febrero de 2016).</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota18"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota18">18</a></span>. Hughes, Justin: «The philosophy of intellectual property», <em>Georgetown University Law Center and Georgetown Law Journal</em>: 1988 (núm.&#160;77), p.&#160;30.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota19"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota19">19</a></span>. Interpretación de Hegel realizada por Moore: Moore, Adam: «Intellectual property», <em>The Stanford encyclopedia of philosophy</em> (ed. Edward  N.  Zalta): 2011: <a target="_blank" href="http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/intellectual-property/">en línea</a> (16 de febrero de 2016).</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota20"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota20">20</a></span>. Epstein, Richard A.: «Why libertarians shouldn’t be (too) skeptical about intellectual property», <em>Progress on point paper</em>, Progress &#x00026; Freedom Foundation: Washington D. C.: 2006 (núm.&#160;13.4), p.&#160;7. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota21"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota21">21</a></span>. Epstein, Richard A.: «Why libertarians shouldn’t be (too) skeptical about intellectual property», <em>Progress on point paper</em>, Progress &#x00026; Freedom Foundation: Washington D. C.: 2006 (núm.&#160;13.4), p.&#160;7. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota22"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota22">22</a></span>. Aufderheide, Patricia; Jaszi, Peter: <em>Reclaiming fair use. How to put balance back in copyright</em>, Universidad de Chicago: Chicago, 2011, p.&#160;3. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota23"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota23">23</a></span>. Moore, Adam: «Intellectual property», <em>The Stanford encyclopedia of philosophy</em> (ed. Edward N. Zalta), Universidad de Stanford: Stanford, 2011, p.&#160;17: <a target="_blank" href="http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/intellectual-property/">en línea</a> (16 de febrero de 2016). La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota24"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota24">24</a></span>. Palmer, Tom G.: «Are patents and copyrights morally justified? The philosophy of property rights and ideal objects», <em>Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy</em>, Universidad de Harvard: Cambridge, 1990 (núm.&#160;3), vol.&#160;13, p.&#160;819. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota25"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota25">25</a></span>. Rand, Ayn: «Patents and copyrights», <em>Capitalism: the unknown ideal</em>, New American Library: Nueva York, 1967, p.&#160;130. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota26"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota26">26</a></span>. Locke, John: <em>Segundo tratado sobre el gobierno civil. Un ensayo acerca del verdadero origen y fin del gobierno civil</em> (trad. Carlos Mellizo), Alianza: Madrid, 1990, p.&#160;60.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota27"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota27">27</a></span>. Nozick, Robert: <em>Anarchy, State and utopia</em>, Basic Books: Nueva York, 1974, pp.&#160;178-182.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota28"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota28">28</a></span>. En esta línea, por ejemplo véanse: Kinsella, Stephan: «Against intellectual property», <em>Journal of Libertarian Studies</em>, Ludwig von Mises Institute: 2001 (núm.&#160;2), vol.&#160;15, pp.&#160;1-53. Moore, Adam: “Information wants to be free”, «Intellectual property», <em>The Stanford encyclopedia of philosophy</em> (ed. Edward N. Zalta), Universidad de Stanford: Stanford, 2011.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota29"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota29">29</a></span>. Por supuesto, como ya hemos visto en el apartado sobre el utilitarismo, posiblemente en este escenario habría menores incentivos para desarrollar creaciones útiles.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota30"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota30">30</a></span>. Damstedt, Benjamin G.: «Limiting Locke: a natural law justification fort the fair use doctrine», <em>The Yale Law Journal</em>, Universidad de Yale: New Haven, 2003 (núm.&#160;5), vol.&#160;112, p.&#160;1221. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota31"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota31">31</a></span>. Netanel, Neil Weinstock: «Making sense of fair use», <em>Lewis  and  Clark</em>: 2011 (núm.&#160;3), vol.&#160;15, p.&#160;716.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota32"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota32">32</a></span>. Beebe, Barton: «An empirical study of U. S. copyright fair use opinions, 1978-2005», <em>University Of Pennsylvania Law Review</em>, Universidad de Pensilvania: Pensilvania, 2008 (núm.&#160;3), vol.&#160;156, p.&#160;552. La traducción me pertenece.</p>
        <p class="frances"><span id="nota33"><a href="18c.xhtml#nota33">33</a></span>. Lipszyc, Delia; Carlos A. Villalba: <em>El derecho de autor en la Argentina</em>, 2.<sup>a</sup> ed., La Ley: Buenos Aires, 2009, p.&#160;196.</p>
    </body>
</html>
